- Okay, in this part of the course, we are
going to to take a look at taking
a Spring Boot jar and putting it
into our Docker image that we are going to
prepare, and get that Docker image
all set up, and we'll actually run
the Docker image and bring that
right up, and run our Spring Boot
application right out of a Docker image.
So, I'm going to toggle over to
my screen now, and show you exactly how to do that.
What we are going to do is,
we're going to create the Spring Boot artifact,
create a Docker file, which will give Docker
a recipe to create our image.
We'll create our image.
Then we'll go out and run it and toggle over
to Chrome and bring up our Spring Boot application
running inside a Docker container.
Okay, I want to show you a couple things here, real quick.
As far as how the Maven build works,
we'll be looking at this a lot closer
going forward, but, if you're not terribly familiar
with Spring Boot so what happens,
it is not an executable jar, but it is fat jar.
And by fat jar, what I mean is that it has everything
self-contained, so it is an executable jar,
which includes all the dependencies.
So, normally when we build something,
we just get the project artifacts.
With Spring Boot, it's going to include in
all the various jars and dependencies,
so normal jar application would just
have the classes of your project.
Here, we have a fat jar, some people
call it an uber jar that includes
all the Maven dependencies that haven't
been specified in the project.
So, the original dot original jar,
that's our classes.
The Spring Boot jar here, that is
the fat or the uber jar that includes
all the jars for like the Spring framework,
H2 database, Thymeleaf.
So, all the dependencies that have been specified
in our Maven Palm are included in that jar.
What's nice about this is it gives us
an executable jar that we can just
plunk into Docker file and run it.
So, what I want to show you now is
I have prepared a Docker file.
I'm going to come over here to the command line, and working
my little temp directory again, and I've got
two files in there, and one I've copied over
the Spring Boot web -0.0.1-snapshot
jar, and that is directly from
the target directory.
So, what you need to do to generate this
is run the package command in Maven, and it
will build that for us, but we need
to work with that build artifact.
So, that is the build artifact that we're dealing with
is that jar, and if I do an ls -ltr,
we'd see that jar does have some girth to it.
So, let's take a look at the Docker file now.
So, vi Dockerfile.
I don't use nano.
So, we can see on the top line, it says
from centos, so that is the Centos image
that we were working with, and the next line,
remember we did the install java,
so I am doing a run install java minus y,
so yum install minus y java.
This is a very important step that installs
the Java JDK for us.
The minus y defaults the questions to yes,
so if you remember, we had to say yes
a couple times there on the downloads.
This defaults that to yes, so it does
a silent install of the yum.
If we don't do the minus y, the Docker built process
is not terribly happy with that.
It will actually fail.
Now, we need to add in a volume
of slash temp, and this is where
Spring Boot will store temp files for us.
So, kind of a minor, but important step.
Without it the Tomcat stuff won't execute properly.
So, that's a default that Spring Boot utilizes.
Now, the next line there, the add.
So, this is saying add from the current directory,
just doing a slash Spring Boot.
So, the way the Docker file works,
it's relative to the Docker file, and we are
asking it to add in that snapshot
artifact, and I'm adding it in as myapp.jar.
So, it moves the file over and it actually
does a little rename of the file, so that
that jar artifact becomes myapp.jar
inside of the Docker image.
Now, the next line, the run sh, that's a shell command.
We are saying to touch the jar, and what
this does is it updates the date
on the jar file, and this could be
important if we had static resources,
such as images or things like that.
So, that'll change the date for those,
so if they get cached or something,
the new version will get pulled down.
Now, the next piece, I stole those
directly from the Spring guys.
They have an article on it, and this is
an entrypoint, and this is a command.
An entrypoint is basically the command that
the Docker image is going to run
when it's run inside of a container.
So, this is a run Java with a parameter
of minus Djava security.egd, and this
gives us a urandom value, and this
helps Tomcat start up faster, so a very long,
technical reason, but the key part
is to remember that it gets Tomcat to start faster.
It says minus jar, and then it gives us
the myapp jar, so that's the jar artifact.
So, long story short, entrypoint says run our jar.
So, pretty simple Docker file.
Not too much going on there.
We install Java, set up a temp directory,
copy over the jar, punch the jar to update
the file time, and then we run the jar.
Let's quit out of this.
Now, to build this, we want to run
the docker command build minus t.
Minus t is for a tag, so we are going to tag
this image with spring-boot-docker, and the next
important thing is that dot that says
look in the local directory for this,
for our Docker file, and it defaults to
the name Docker file, and it's Docker file
with a capital D, not camel case.
I've made that mistake in the past, and it's
not happy about that.
So, now you can see, we're doing steps, and these steps
are coming right out of the Docker file,
so it's running the Docker file, and it started
that up, and if you see what's scrolling
across the screen, this is going to look
very, very familiar, because it's the exact
same output that we got when we started up
the Centos image, and we ran yum install.
So, it's going through the exact same images, and what's
happening in the background now is
Docker is going out, and it's running
this command, and when this command
is complete, it's going to create
an image layer, and just like we saw before,
now, before where we had these Docker images
made of multiple layers, we are actually
creating one with yum command to install
Java, and we'll create another layer
when we install the jar file.
So, our Docker image is going to have
multiple layers, and I think the Centos
it only had one layer, a base layer, and we'll
have several layers here.
Now, we can see each one of these steps
is probably going to produce a layer, and we can see
that we successfully built that container.
So, I'm going to come over here and cheat.
I've saved these commands.
Before I run that, I'm going to paste this real quick.
So, I have docker run minus d to run
in the background process, and a minus p
of 8080:8080, so that's mapping
a localhost 8080, and I am saying
to run the image of Spring Boot Docker.
So, just do a quick toggle over
here, and this is what I had up before.
When I refresh, we can see that
that dies, so I want to prove to you
that nothing's running, nothing's up my sleeve.
Now, I'm going to come over here and hit
enter, and we get that back.
So, I can do docker ps.
We can see that is running, docker logs, and let's
grab this name.
Oops.
Get a little space in there, and we can see
that everything has come up normally.
So, it does start up pretty quick
when running from a jar.
Now let's jump over here, and it already refreshed.
So, we can see that it's running for us, and I'm
not sure if I have any logging output on this.
So, just like when you when you ask how we do a minus f,
and it does look like we're getting
some chatter there, so let's do a refresh.
No, I'm sorry, I lied.
I'm not getting any logging output,
so I'd have to change up the logging output,
but the minus f is going to give that set, and if
you do have the logging output increased,
we can definitely get that right to the console,
so it's actually a kind of a nice little feature of Docker.
All right, so that's it.
That's all there is to running
a Spring Boot application inside of Docker.
You can see the actual steps to create the container,
or create the image and then run the container,
were fairly simple, fairly short,
but a number of things had to line up, and to get you
from not knowing anything to Docker
to here, I feel it's quite a bit.
A lot of things came into play.
We took that Centos image, loaded up the Spring Boot
through a Docker file, ran that Docker file
via Docker to create a Docker image, and then
we started up that image, and we were able
to go right inside of it and see our
Spring Boot application running.
(heavy metal music)